Thread Pooling

Thread pooling helps in CPU utilization at its best and making system more scalable
ExecutorService ex = executors.newThreadPool(ncores)
ex.submit(Runnable Task)

ex. webservers like Tomcat , GlassFish gets lots of request (GET MOVIES API hit on Netflix )
and for every request Database query is happening . waiting time will be huge . every request will be put on
hold for some time which accumulate to huge Latency . here we are not optimizing threads . even we are getting
a lot of request but our threads are blocked for IO Opertions

example : lets suppose if 10cr request and if we directly allow them to hit database it will make it down
and waiting queue will be huge . response time will become huge . latency increased now timeout will occur.
java is mainly based on networking so they need to build something new to utilize CPU

we cannot make 2cr threads and scaling not possible with Platform threads . it will increase Latency
Threads are best for Computation Intensive operations but not good for IO Intensive Threads


Java introduced one Concept of Virtual Threads, and it made possible to create lakhs of virtual threads
java allows to create a virtual thread per request .let suppose 10 lakh request came so you can use
virtual thread . Virtual Threads are fully managed by JVM .virtual thread is super lightweight (kb) and
Platform Thread (2MB)

1 virtual Threads are very light weight
2 small size
3 can be in millions (no limit as such)
4 Managed by JVM
5 Designed for Blocked IO Operation (like file reading , networking calls , db calls )

this type of thread is called Virtual Thread (came in Java 21 and came in preview stage in java 19)
Virtual Thread should not be used in CPU Intensive or Computation intensive work like image processing etc.

while Platform Threads are managed by Operating system
Virtual threads are not faster threads; they do not run code any faster than platform threads.
They exist to provide scale (higher throughput), not speed (lower latency).
Use virtual threads in high-throughput concurrent applications, especially those that consist of a great number of concurrent
tasks that spend much of their time waiting. Server applications are examples of high-throughput applications because they
typically handle many client requests that perform blocking I/O operations such as fetching resources.

